---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/2-the-world-as-we-know-it/6-inner-planes/"}
---


The Inner Planes surround and enfold the [[2 - The World As We Know It/1. Material Plane\|1. Material Plane]] and its echoes, providing the raw elemental substance from which all worlds were made. The four [[2 - The World As We Know It/7. Elemental Planes\|7. Elemental Planes]] — Air, Earth, Fire, and Water — form a ring around the Material Plane, suspended within a churning realm known as the [[2 - The World As We Know It/8. Elemental Chaos\|8. Elemental Chaos]]. These planes are all connected, and the border regions between them are sometimes described as distinct planes in their own right.

At their innermost edges, where they are closest to the [[2 - The World As We Know It/1. Material Plane\|1. Material Plane]] (in a conceptual if not a literal geographical sense), the four [[2 - The World As We Know It/7. Elemental Planes\|7. Elemental Planes]] resemble places in the [[2 - The World As We Know It/1. Material Plane\|1. Material Plane]]. The four elements mingle together as they do in the Material Plane, forming land, sea, and sky. But the dominant element exerts a strong influence on the environment, reflecting its fundamental qualities.



As they extend farther from the Material Plane, the Elemental Planes become increasingly alien and hostile. Here, in the outermost regions, the elements exist in their purest form: great expanses of solid earth, blazing fire, crystal-clear water, and unsullied air. Any foreign substance is extremely rare; little air can be found in the outermost reaches of the Plane of Earth, and earth is all but impossible to find in the outermost reaches of the Plane of Fire. These areas are much less hospitable to travelers from the Material Plane than the border regions are.