---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/3-a-guide-to-orin/3-1-history-and-events/3-the-abyssal-war/","created":"2025-01-19T09:39:32.012-06:00","updated":"2025-01-21T12:39:05.817-06:00"}
---


Blood, sweat, and tears, drenched the lands of Orin for 3 months. Farmers, merchants, artists, any man who could wield a weapon was sent onto the battlefield. These men were not sent by any order, but for the sake of all that they held dear. For if not, Orin would be taken from the grasp of men. 

It was a cloudy day, the sun never shone onto the surface of Orin that day. As if anticipating something malicious was soon to come. And thus it did, a gate was opened. Not far off the western coast of todays [[3 - A Guide to Orin/3.2 Cities and Landmarks/Brineshore\|Brineshore]], on a small forsaken isle. Here is where the battle began. As ships with blackened wood sailed out of the gate, along with it, Devils and fiends from the deep Abyss. 

I remember the day my friend of years past took up arms to sail into [[2 - The World As We Know It/3. The Great Sea\|3. The Great Sea]]. Only to be met with a solemn fate. The military vessels from Orin were no match to the power the fiends possessed, for many of us had never seen nor heard of creatures such as these. 

The enemy made landfall on the northern tip of [[3 - A Guide to Orin/3.2 Cities and Landmarks/Cerulean Coast\|Cerulean Coast]], and set up camps for their soldiers in what we now call the [[3 - A Guide to Orin/3.2 Cities and Landmarks/Badlands\|Badlands]]. A land full of sand and despair, the perfect place for demons such as these. This is where majority of the war took place. All of Orins forces rushed to meet them in the [[3 - A Guide to Orin/3.2 Cities and Landmarks/Badlands\|Badlands]], but to no avail. Orin simply did not have the numbers, or manpower to sustain a fight with the Abyssal enemy. 

Not long after the war started, arcane scholars from all over sent word to foreign lands and to the Fey. Thankfully their voices were heard. From the great mountains of the [[3 - A Guide to Orin/3.2 Cities and Landmarks/Graven Range\|Graven Range]] came forces strong in numbers from all over. Orin's greatest advantage came from the [[2 - The World As We Know It/7. Elemental Planes\|7. Elemental Planes]]. A far off realm outside of the [[2 - The World As We Know It/4. Feywild\|4. Feywild]] and [[2 - The World As We Know It/5. Shadowfell\|5. Shadowfell]], brought many of their finest warriors. But most importantly, a weapon. One that would drive the Abyssal forces back to one of the [[2 - The World As We Know It/10. Infinite Layers of the Abyss\|10. Infinite Layers of the Abyss]] that they came from, and seal the gate. 

What the people or Orin did not know at the time, was that there has been an ongoing "Blood War" between the fiends and devils of the hells. Centuries earlier their war broke into the material plane, this forced the gods to intervene and they created one single gate to get to the Abyss, stationed in the Plane of Fire (see [[2 - The World As We Know It/7. Elemental Planes\|7. Elemental Planes]]). This would be the only route to get into the Abyss... 

So they thought...

The purpose of the Abyssal forces assault on Orin is still considered unknown. Whether it was to seek out a new battleground with the devils from the Nine Hells, or to search for the ultimate solution for them to win their war. Hopefully Orin will never have to see the gaze of one as hideous as the fiends that stepped through the gate that horrible day. 



